# Formal group laws arising from  algebraic varieties

This is the repository of my Master&rsquo;s Thesis, supervised by Professor Christian Liedtke. It must be presented by the 15<sup>th</sup> of July, 2024. It is about the formal Brauer group, that arises from &eacute;tale cohomology groups.

Artin and Mazur[^1] defined a new formal group on algebraic varieties: the so-called formal Brauer group. On elliptic surfaces, Artin[^2] gived a relation between the height of the formal Brauer group and the coefficients of the Weierstrass equation that define the surface. Later, Ito and Liedtke[^3] provided a relation between the height of this formal group and the number of fibres with potentially supersingular reduction in elliptic K3 surfaces with *p*-torsion sections.

[^1]: Michael Artin and Barry Mazur. &ldquo;Formal groups arising from algebraic varieties&rdquo;. In: *Annales scientifiques de l&rsquo;&Eacute;cole Normale Sup&eacute;rieure*. 4th ser. 10.1 (1977), pp. 87&ndash;131. DOI: [10.24033/asens.1322](https://doi.org/10.24033/asens.1322).

[^2]: Michael Artin. &ldquo;Supersingular *K*3 surfaces&rdquo;. In: *Annales scientifiques de l&rsquo;&Eacute;cole Normale Sup&eacute;rieure*. 4th ser. 7.4 (1974), pp. 543&ndash;567. DOI: [10.24033/asens.1279](https://doi.org/10.24033/asens.1279).

[^3]: Hiroyuki Ito and Christian Liedtke. *Elliptic K3 surfaces with p<sup>n</sup>-torsion sections*. 2011. arXiv: [1003.0144 [math.AG]](https://arxiv.org/abs/1003.0144).

## Compilation

The report is generated by compiling the file [report.tex](./report/report.tex) in the folder [report](./report) with `PdfLaTeX`. To add the bibliography contained in the file [bibliography.bib](./report/bibliography.bib), compile the generated file `report.aux` with `biber`, and then the TeX file twice. On a terminal in the root directory of the project, this process can be summarised in the following commands:

```
cd ./report
pdflatex report
biber report
pdflatex report
pdflatex report
```

To reduce the time of compiling, the Tikz pictures can be externalised by compiling the file [externalize-tikz.tex](./images/externalize-tikz.tex) in the folder [images](./images) allowing `shell-escape`:

```
cd ./images
pdflatex --shell-escape externalize-tikz
```

This exports the Tikz pictures as PDFs to be included directly in `report.tex`. However, if the images are externalized and there are any subsequent changes in the TeX code that generates the images, the changes will not be reflected in the report when compiled unless the PDF files are erased or the Tikz pictures are externalized again.
